hello I'm John Elkins and this is Israel
up close getting around in a wheelchair
is not easy even for the most
independent person but this will soon
change thanks to the endeavors of two
young Israeli designers they developed a
new type of wheel that will actually
climb stairs offering new freedom to
disabled people everywhere reporter
Denison saw the wheel in action it
started out with an idea for a project
by industrial design student i wish i
nevah plan ski after graduating he and
his partner Gil me highly a young
engineer closed themselves in this
converted barn in a farming village near
Ben Gurion Airport to develop their
product four years later and after an
investment of over two million dollars
the two registered international patents
on the new invention called attract will
it's in essence a regular wheel that
when needed changes into a track of the
type commonly used by bulldozers and
army vehicles what we offer is a
mechanism it usually acts like a wheel
has low friction it rolls it has a very
good energy efficiency and only one you
need it as a track when you need that
that extent ability for obstacle
overcoming then by just pressing a
button or doing a very simple operation
you are within seconds you are on tracks
and then you use your tracks till you
don't need them anymore then you go back
to wheel while the conventional wheel
disturbed humanity for millennia often
grinds to a halt when faced by barriers
rough uneven ground and even common
obstacles such as stairways this is
where the checked wheel snaps into
action it offers the best of both worlds
fast efficient and economical travel
with good maneuverability on wheels and
high traction with increased pulling
power off road
the technology has numerous applications
in many fields interest is high amongst
manufacturers of agricultural equipment
and in the military industries in Israel
and abroad while most of the potential
market lies in the US and Europe Nova
plan ski says setting up a high-tech
business in Israel has been advantageous
it seems like the Israeli industry has
more guts to start new ideas and to take
more risk than then industries in West
Europe or in the North America I don't
think the kind of companies like asked
like a starter company just two guys
with an idea it could have raised that
kind of money in other place I mean it
would be much diff mahalia Nova Penske
say while they have other new ideas on
the drawing boards most of their time is
still spent developing the various
checked real applications especially in
the realm of domestic and military
robots dennis is in IBN use
you